In the last lecture, we wrote this basic code allowing us to handle this with callbacks, let's now rewrite
this with promises. Promises are a relatively new feature, though already supported by quite some browsers,
an article with detailed browser support can be found at the end of this module and promises work like
that.
We create a new promise which I'll store in a variable, I'll name the variable promise
but you can pick any name you like.
We then instantiate a new promise object and often times, you use promises which already have been instantiated,
for example the register method returns a promise,
I'll come back to that later.
The promise constructor takes one argument, a function which will get executed right away,
this function on the other hand also gets two arguments, two functions we can execute inside that function, a
resolve and a reject function. Promises are basically able to give us back two types of results,
they either resolve to a value or they throw an error
by rejecting the promise. They will give us back a response under all circumstances,
so we always get back
either resolve or reject.
Now let me take that set timeout code and put it into that
promise.
Now in that function here where I log this, I will simply resolve this text here for example,
so I will resolve this string.
This simply means the promise is done,
pass this argument here back and I will come back to how we consume this in a second. So with that, I'll comment
out the console log and the promise.
We can now use the promise here and now we have two functions or methods we can execute on that promise
object, then and catch.
Now we already saw then earlier, here for example because register returns as such a promise, there we
don't have to create it on our own
and oftentimes you work with APIs that give you back promises.
So this syntax of you creating a promise on your own, you're probably not going to use that that often.
So the promise we created, we can use then to react to anytime the promise resolves,
so this line here. We actually can also react to rejections,
I'll come back to that too,
let's stick to resolving now.
Here we then execute some function and this function will get executed whenever resolve or reject
is called.
Here we get back the value we passed to resolve,
so this string in this case.
So since I created the promise, I know that I get back some text,
you can of course give this argument any name you like and it can you then console log the text here to
still write this to the console.
Now if we change it like this and we save that and we go back to our application and reload, you'll still
see this is executed right after set timeout
and after three seconds, you'll see this is executed once the timer is done.
So this still works as before but now using a promise. Now correctly you would say that's not shorter
than the code we had before
but that's not the idea,
the real value of promises shines once you have multiple asynchronous tasks chained after each other
because then you can really just chain then calls.
If here console log were another value we return, maybe we do that,
so we return text here, even though that's no asynchronous code, we still can do that,
we can also return synchronous values.
I can chain another then call where I have my function receiving let's say new text
just to mix up the names and I could console log here.
Now typically of course you wouldn't return the unchanged value but maybe funnel this value from the
first resolved call through another promise or another asynchronous code.
But having then calls chained after each other is a convenient and easy to understand way of handling
values
which you basically pass through a chain of tasks you could say.
Now of course, your promise could also fail
but first let me show you that this works.
So let's quickly go back to the application reload,
this is executed right after set timeout,
let's wait for three seconds,
this is executed once the timer is done.
So here we see multiple then calls.
Now as I said, your promise could also reject so it could fail.
Let's handle this case in the next lecture.